Add kubernetes 1.31 deprecations and removals blog (#46948)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-07-18-kubernetes-1.31-deprecations-and-removals.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes Removals and Major Changes In v1.31'
date: 2024-07-18
slug: kubernetes-1-31-upcoming-changes
author: >
  Abigail McCarthy,
  Edith Puclla,
  Matteo Bianchi,
  Rashan Smith,
  Yigit Demirbas 
---

> As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. This article outlines some planned changes for the Kubernetes 1.31 release that the release team feels you should be aware of for the continued maintenance of your Kubernetes environment. The Information listed below is based on the current status of the v1.31 release. It may change before the actual release date. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. This article outlines some planned changes for the Kubernetes v1.31 release that the release team feels you should be aware of for the continued maintenance of your Kubernetes environment. The Information listed below is based on the current status of the v1.31 release. It may change before the actual release date. 
```

Reviewer 2: Information -> information

> if you find it hard to locate the word, you may want to manually wrap the long lines
> for the article ...

### The Kubernetes API Removal and Deprecation process

> The Kubernetes project has a well-documented [deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for features. This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level. A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release. It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will result in a warning being displayed. Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, so you must migrate to using the replacement.

Reviewer 3: Consider using site-relative link where feasible.

```suggestion
The Kubernetes project has a well-documented [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for features. This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level. A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release. It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will result in a warning being displayed. Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, so you must migrate to using the replacement.
```

> The Kubernetes project has a well-documented [deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for features. This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that same API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level. A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release, it will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will result in a warning being displayed. Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, at which point you must migrate to using the replacement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes project has a well-documented [deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for features. This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level. A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release. It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will result in a warning being displayed. Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, so you must migrate to using the replacement.
```

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.

* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after the deprecation.

* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

> Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).
```

> Whether an API is removed as a result of a feature graduating from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).
```

> ## A note about SHA-1 signature support fully going away in go1.24

Author: @MadhavJivrajani can you review this section for the mid-cycle deprecations blog about SHA-1 support. thanks!

Author: cc: @dims if you are able to review as well

> In [go1.18](https://go.dev/doc/go1.18#sha1) (released in March 2022), the crypto/x509 library started to reject certificates that were signed with a SHA-1 hash function. While SHA-1 is established to be unsafe and publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015, there might still be cases in the context of Kubernetes where user-provided certificates are signed using a SHA-1 hash function through private authorities with them being used for Aggregated API Servers of webhooks. If you have relied on SHA-1 based certificates, you must explicitly opt back into its support by setting `GODEBUG=x509sha1=1` in your environment.

Reviewer 2: of webhooks --> or webhooks?

> In [go1.18](https://go.dev/doc/go1.18#sha1) (released in March 2022), the crypto/x509 library started to reject certificates that were signed with a SHA-1 hash function. While SHA-1 is established to be unsafe and publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not issues SHA-1 certificates since 2015, there might still be cases in the context of Kubernetes where user-provided certificates are signed using a SHA-1 hash function through private authorities with them being used for Aggregated API Servers of webhooks. If you have been reliant on SHA-1 based certificates, you must be explicitly opting back into its support by setting `GODEBUG=x509sha1=1` in your environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In [go1.18](https://go.dev/doc/go1.18#sha1) (released in March 2022), the crypto/x509 library started to reject certificates that were signed with a SHA-1 hash function. While SHA-1 is established to be unsafe and publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015, there might still be cases in the context of Kubernetes where user-provided certificates are signed using a SHA-1 hash function through private authorities with them being used for Aggregated API Servers of webhooks. If you have relied on SHA-1 based certificates, you must explicitly opt back into its support by setting `GODEBUG=x509sha1=1` in your environment.
```

> Given Go's [compatibility policy for GODEBUGs](https://go.dev/blog/compat), the `x509sha1` GODEBUG and consequently the support for SHA-1 certificates will [fully go away in go1.24](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.23) which would release in the first half of 2025. If you are reliant on SHA-1 certificates, please start moving off of them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Given Go's [compatibility policy for GODEBUGs](https://go.dev/blog/compat), the `x509sha1` GODEBUG and the support for SHA-1 certificates will [fully go away in go1.24](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.23) which will be released in the first half of 2025. If you rely on SHA-1 certificates, please start moving off them.
```

Please see [Kubernetes issue #125689](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125689) to get a better idea of timelines around the support for SHA-1 going away, when Kubernetes releases plans to adopt go1.24, and for more details on how to detect usage of SHA-1 certificates via metrics and audit logging. 

## Deprecations and Removals in Kubernetes 1.31

> ### Deprecate kustomize from kubectl [KEP 4706](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4706)

Author: @soltysh Can you review this to make sure if aligns with the deprecation? Is there anything users will need to know or do differently in 1.31?

Reviewer 5: I don't think we should include this at all in the 1.31 blog

Author: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/46948#discussion_r1680775871

Reviewer 6: @a-mccarthy as commented in the other PR, we're dropping this work from 1.31, pending further discussions. So I'd drop this bit from this blog.

> In the early days of Kubernetes, when not that many tools in the field of declarative configurations existed, [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) was introduced and to make life easier for kubectl users it was included in kubectl, by default.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the early days of Kubernetes, when not that many tools in the field of declarative configurations existed, [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) was introduced, and to make life easier for kubectl users, it was included in kubectl by default.
```

> Over the past several years, the ecosystem around Kubernetes has grown significantly, resulting in a wider spread of tooling, including declarative configuration. With these new options, it's best left to the user to match their use cases with the best tool capable of resolving the problem at hand. Using [kubectl plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/), users can choose the best tool to match their needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Over the past several years, the ecosystem around Kubernetes has grown significantly, resulting in a wider spread of tooling, including declarative configuration. With these new options, it's best left to the user to match their use cases with the best tool capable of resolving the problem at hand. Using [kubectl plugins](/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/), users can choose the best tool to match their needs.
```

> Over the past several years the ecosystem around Kubernetes grew significantly, resulting in wider spread of tooling, including declarative configuration. With these new options, it's best left to the user to match their use cases with the best tool capable of resolving the problem at hand. Using [kubectl plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/), users can pick and choose the best tool to match their needs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Over the past several years, the ecosystem around Kubernetes has grown significantly, resulting in a wider spread of tooling, including declarative configuration. With these new options, it's best left to the user to match their use cases with the best tool capable of resolving the problem at hand. Using [kubectl plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/), users can choose the best tool to match their needs.
```

With Kubernetes v1.31, kustomize will be deprecated from kubectl. It will be removed in a future release. This will allow both tools to be developed and maintained separately.

### Deprecate Kubelet RunOnce mode [KEP 4580](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4580)

> The kubelet support for RunOnce mode is being deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Users are advised to deprecate RunOnce mode by disabling the `LegacyNodeRunOnceMode` feature gate. Starting in Kubernetes 1.31, kubelet will refuse to start if this feature gate is disabled. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet support for RunOnce mode is being deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Users are advised to deprecate RunOnce mode by disabling the `LegacyNodeRunOnceMode` feature gate. Starting in Kubernetes v1.31, kubelet will refuse to start if this feature gate is disabled. 
```

> The kubelet support for RunOnce mode is being deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Users are advised to deprecate RunOnce mode by disabling the `LegacyNodeRunOnceMode` feature gate. Starting in Kubernetes 1.31, kubelet will refuse to start if this feature gate is disabled. 

Reviewer 7: I can not find the feature-gate in the k/k codebase. It seems that the KEP is not implemented yet.

cc @HirazawaUi

If you don't have bandwidth to implement this, please let me know. I'm happy to help.

Reviewer 8: I have submitted a PR, but it has not been merged yet.

Author: @HirazawaUi will this be merged before the blog is published? We are planning to publish just want to make sure that this is updated with what get merged in case there are any changes

If you still rely on this feature, migrate to using the `podman kube` subcommand. Refer to the [podman documentation](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-kube.1.html.) for more information.

### Deprecate status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion field [KEP 4004](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004)
The `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersionv1.Node` field is being deprecated due to inaccuracies and will be removed in a future release. This field is set by the kubelet, which does not have reliable information about the kube-proxy version or whether kube-proxy is running. 

> After deprecation, users will no longer be able to retrieve the kube-proxy version from the Node object.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After deprecation, users can no longer retrieve the kube-proxy version from the Node object.
```

> ### Removal of in-tree cloud providers - sig-cloudprovider

Reviewer 9: @elmiko Not sure if you are the right person but can you get someone in the sig-cloudprovider to review? Thanks a lot!

Reviewer 10: thanks for the ping @mbianchidev , this looks accurate to me.

cc @bridgetkromhout ptal also

> As highlighted in our [previous blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2024/05/20/completing-cloud-provider-migration/), the last bits of in-tree cloud provider code have been removed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As highlighted in our [previous blog](/blog/2024/05/20/completing-cloud-provider-migration/), the last bits of in-tree cloud provider code have been removed.
```

> This milestone marks the completion of the externalization process for all cloud providers integrations from the Kubernetes core ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/2395-removing-in-tree-cloud-providers/README.md)), a process started with Kubernetes v1.26. This change helps Kubernetes to get closer to being a truly vendor-neutral platform.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This milestone marks the completion of the externalization process for all cloud providers' integrations from the Kubernetes core ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/2395-removing-in-tree-cloud-providers/README.md)), a process started with Kubernetes v1.26. This change helps Kubernetes to get closer to being a truly vendor-neutral platform.
```

> For further details on the cloud provider integrations read our [v1.29 Cloud Provider Integrations feature blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/12/14/cloud-provider-integration-changes/) and for additional context about the in-tree code removal we invite you to check the ([v1.29 deprecation blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/11/16/kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes/#removal-of-in-tree-integrations-with-cloud-providers-kep-2395-https-kep-k8s-io-2395)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For further details on the cloud provider integrations, read our [v1.29 Cloud Provider Integrations feature blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/12/14/cloud-provider-integration-changes/). For additional context about the in-tree code removal, we invite you to check the ([v1.29 deprecation blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/11/16/kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes/#removal-of-in-tree-integrations-with-cloud-providers-kep-2395-https-kep-k8s-io-2395)).
```

The latter blog also contains useful information for users who need to migrate to version 1.29 and later.

> ### Removal of Kubelet Flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`

Reviewer 11: Hello, @carlory !
Could you help us to review this part of the blog, "Removal of Kubelet Flag"? Let me know if there are any edits needed or if I should reach out to someone else for revision.

I appreciate it!

Thanks!

Reviewer 7: LGTM

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
### Removal of kubelet `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes` command line flag
```

The Kubelet flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`, which was deprecated in 2017, has now been removed.

You can find more details in the pull request [#122082](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122082).

> ### Removal of CephFS volume plugin 

Author: @carlory can you also review cephfs and ceph rbd sections here? thank you

> [CephFS volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs) was removed in this release and the `cephFS` volume type became non-functional. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
[CephFS volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs) was removed in this release and the `cephfs` volume type became non-functional. 
```

> [CephFS volume plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs) was removed in this release and the `cephFS` volume type became non-functional. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[CephFS volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs) was removed in this release and the `cephFS` volume type became non-functional. 
```

> Its recommended that you use [CephFS CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) third party storage driver instead. A re-deployment of your application is required to use the new driver if you were using CephFS volume plugin before upgrading cluster version to v1.31.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you use the [CephFS CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) as a third-party storage driver instead. If you were using the CephFS volume plugin before upgrading the cluster version to v1.31, you must re-deploy your application to use the new driver.
```

CephFS volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.

### Removal of Ceph RBD volume plugin

> This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the Ceph RBD volume type non-functional.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the `rbd` volume type non-functional.
```

> This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the Ceph RBD volume type non-functional.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the Ceph RBD volume type non-functional.
```

> [Ceph RBD volume plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#ceph-rbd) was removed in this release together with its CSI migration support and the ceph RBD volume type became non-functional. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
[Ceph RBD volume plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) was removed in this release together with its CSI migration support and the ceph RBD volume type became non-functional. 
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the Ceph RBD volume type non-functional.
```

> Its recommended that you use use the [RBD CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) in your clusters instead. A re-deployment of your application is required to use the new driver if you were using Ceph RBD volume plugin before upgrading cluster version to v1.31.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's recommended that you use the [RBD CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) in your clusters instead. If you were using Ceph RBD volume plugin before upgrading the cluster version to v1.31, you must re-deploy your application to use the new driver.
```

> CephRBD volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The CephRBD volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.
```

> ### Deprecation of Non-CSI Volume Limit Plugins in Kube-scheduler 

Reviewer 11: Hello, @carlory !  

I would appreciate a review of this section regarding the deprecation and removal of non-CSI volume limit plugins in Kube-scheduler. If there are any changes, please let me know. If you are not the right person, I would appreciate it if you could direct me to someone in the SIG-Scheduling team who can review it.

Thank you so much!

Reviewer 7: LGTM

> The `kube-scheduler` has deprecated all non-CSI volume limit plugins and removed them from the [default plugins](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/), including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `kube-scheduler` has deprecated all non-CSI volume limit plugins and removed them from the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/), including:
```

- AzureDiskLimits
- CinderLimits
- EBSLimits
- GCEPDLimits

> Its recommended that you use `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Its recommended that you use `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.
```

> Its recommended that you use `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Its recommended that you use `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.
```

These plugins have been removed from the default plugins as they have been marked as deprecated since Kubernetes v1.14.

## Looking ahead

> The official list of API removals planned for [Kubernetes v1.32](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32) include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The official list of API removals planned for [Kubernetes v1.32](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32) include:
```

* The `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will be removed. To prepare for this, you can edit your existing manifests and rewrite client software to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1 API` version, available since v1.29. All existing persisted objects are accessible via the new API. Notable changes in flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3 include that the PriorityLevelConfiguration `spec.limited.nominalConcurrencyShares` field only defaults to 30 when unspecified, and an explicit value of 0 is not changed to 30.

> For more information please refer to [these docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information please refer to [these docs](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32).
```

## Want to know more?

> Deprecations are announced in the Kubernetes release notes. We will formally announce the deprecations that come with [Kubernetes v1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md#deprecation) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes release notes announce deprecations. We will formally announce the deprecations in [Kubernetes v1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.31.md#deprecation) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.
```

While SHA-1 is established to be unsafe and publicly trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015, there might still be cases in the context of Kubernetes where user-provided certificates are signed using a SHA-1 hash function through private authorities with them being used for Aggregated API Servers or webhooks. 
If you have relied on SHA-1 based certificates, you must explicitly opt back into its support by setting `GODEBUG=x509sha1=1` in your environment.

Given Go's [compatibility policy for GODEBUGs](https://go.dev/blog/compat), the `x509sha1` GODEBUG and the support for SHA-1 certificates will [fully go away in go1.24](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.23) which will be released in the first half of 2025. 
If you rely on SHA-1 certificates, please start moving off them.

Please see [Kubernetes issue #125689](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125689) to get a better idea of timelines around the support for SHA-1 going away, when Kubernetes releases plans to adopt go1.24, and for more details on how to detect usage of SHA-1 certificates via metrics and audit logging. 

## Deprecations and removals in Kubernetes 1.31
 

> ### Deprecation of `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Nodes ([KEP 4004](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004))

Author: @sftim  i've updated this section to hopefully be more clear. let me know if you have any thoughts

The `.status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field of Nodes is being deprecated in Kubernetes v1.31,
and will be removed in a later release.
It's being deprecated because the value of this field wasn't (and isn't) accurate.
This field is set by the kubelet, which does not have reliable information about the kube-proxy version or whether kube-proxy is running. 

> The `DisableNodeKubeProxyVersion` [feature gate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) will be set to `true` in by default in v1.31 and the kubelet will no longer attempt to set the `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for its associated Node.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
The `DisableNodeKubeProxyVersion` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) will be set to `true` in by default in v1.31 and the kubelet will no longer attempt to set the `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for its associated Node.
```

### Removal of all in-tree integrations with cloud providers

As highlighted in a [previous article](/blog/2024/05/20/completing-cloud-provider-migration/), the last remaining in-tree support for cloud provider integration will be removed as part of the v1.31 release.
This doesn't mean you can't integrate with a cloud provider, however you now **must** use the
recommended approach using an external integration. Some integrations are part of the Kubernetes
project and others are third party software.

This milestone marks the completion of the externalization process for all cloud providers' integrations from the Kubernetes core ([KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-cloud-provider/2395-removing-in-tree-cloud-providers/README.md)), a process started with Kubernetes v1.26. 
This change helps Kubernetes to get closer to being a truly vendor-neutral platform.

> For further details on the cloud provider integrations, read our [v1.29 Cloud Provider Integrations feature blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/12/14/cloud-provider-integration-changes/). 
> For additional context about the in-tree code removal, we invite you to check the ([v1.29 deprecation blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/11/16/kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes/#removal-of-in-tree-integrations-with-cloud-providers-kep-2395-https-kep-k8s-io-2395)).

Reviewer 12: (nits)
```suggestion
For further details on the cloud provider integrations, read our [v1.29 Cloud Provider Integrations feature blog](/blog/2023/12/14/cloud-provider-integration-changes/). 
For additional context about the in-tree code removal, we invite you to check the ([v1.29 deprecation blog](/blog/2023/11/16/kubernetes-1-29-upcoming-changes/#removal-of-in-tree-integrations-with-cloud-providers-kep-2395-https-kep-k8s-io-2395)).
```

This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level.
A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release. 
It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will display a warning. 
Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, so you must migrate to using the replacement.

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.

* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after the deprecation.

* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. 
Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).

> ## A note about SHA-1 signature support fully going away in go1.24

Author: I've update the title a bit. I kept the `a note about` part in the title b/c that is how we've titled notes like this in previous deprecation and removal blogs.

If you rely on SHA-1 certificates, please start moving off them.

Please see [Kubernetes issue #125689](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125689) to get a better idea of timelines around the support for SHA-1 going away, when Kubernetes releases plans to adopt go1.24, and for more details on how to detect usage of SHA-1 certificates via metrics and audit logging. 

## Deprecations and Removals in Kubernetes 1.31
 

### Deprecate Kubelet RunOnce mode [KEP 4580](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4580)

The kubelet support for RunOnce mode is being deprecated and will be removed in a future release. 
Users are advised to deprecate RunOnce mode by disabling the `LegacyNodeRunOnceMode` feature gate. 
Starting in Kubernetes v1.31, kubelet will refuse to start if this feature gate is disabled. 

If you still rely on this feature, migrate to using the `podman kube` subcommand. 
For more information, refer to the [podman documentation](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-kube.1.html).

### Deprecate status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion field [KEP 4004](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004)

> The `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersionv1.Node` field is being deprecated due to inaccuracies and will be removed in a future release. 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
The `.status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field of Nodes is being deprecated in Kubernetes v1.31,
and will be removed in a later release.
It's being deprecated because the value of this field wasn't (and isn't) accurate.
```

This field is set by the kubelet, which does not have reliable information about the kube-proxy version or whether kube-proxy is running. 

> After deprecation, users can no longer retrieve the kube-proxy version from the Node object.

Reviewer 12: Is this true?

Author: hmm, the release note states "Graduated the `DisableNodeKubeProxyVersion` feature gate to beta. By default, the kubelet no longer attempts to set the `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for its associated Node." 

So if its not set then this is likely true. but we can maybe be more precise.

Author: @HirazawaUi can you weigh in here?

The latter blog also contains useful information for users who need to migrate to version v1.29 and later.

### Removal of Kubelet Flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`

The Kubelet flag `--keep-terminated-pod-volumes`, which was deprecated in 2017, has now been removed.

You can find more details in the pull request [#122082](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122082).

### Removal of CephFS volume plugin 

[CephFS volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs) was removed in this release and the `cephfs` volume type became non-functional. 

It is recommended that you use the [CephFS CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) as a third-party storage driver instead. If you were using the CephFS volume plugin before upgrading the cluster version to v1.31, you must re-deploy your application to use the new driver.

CephFS volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.

### Removal of Ceph RBD volume plugin

> This release removed the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the `rbd` volume type non-functional.

Reviewer 12: I'm pretty sure we mean:
```suggestion
The v1.31 release will remove the [Ceph RBD volume plugin](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) and its CSI migration support, making the `rbd` volume type non-functional.
```

It's recommended that you use the [RBD CSI driver](https://github.com/ceph/ceph-csi/) in your clusters instead. 
If you were using Ceph RBD volume plugin before upgrading the cluster version to v1.31, you must re-deploy your application to use the new driver.

> The CephRBD volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
The Ceph RBD volume plugin was formally marked as deprecated in v1.28.
```

> ### Deprecation of Non-CSI Volume Limit Plugins in Kube-scheduler 

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
### Deprecation of non-CSI volume limit plugins in kube-scheduler
```

> The `kube-scheduler` has deprecated all non-CSI volume limit plugins and removed them from the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/), including:

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
The v1.31 release will deprecate all non-CSI volume limit scheduler plugins, and will remove some
already deprected plugins from the [default plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/), including:
```

> - AzureDiskLimits
> - CinderLimits
> - EBSLimits
> - GCEPDLimits

Reviewer 12: (nit)
```suggestion
- `AzureDiskLimits`
- `CinderLimits`
- `EBSLimits`
- `GCEPDLimits`
```

It's recommended that you use the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin instead because it can handle the same functionality as the removed plugins since those volume types have been migrated to CSI. 
Please replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). 

> The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.

Reviewer 12: ```suggeestion
You should plan to replace the deprecated plugins with the `NodeVolumeLimits` plugin if you explicitly use them in the [scheduler config](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/). 
The `AzureDiskLimits`, `CinderLimits`, `EBSLimits`, and `GCEPDLimits` plugins will be removed in Kubernetes v1.32.
```

Are we 100% guaranteeing the removal in v1.32?

Author: I've updated this to say "in a future release".

> These plugins have been removed from the default plugins as they have been marked as deprecated since Kubernetes v1.14.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
These plugins will be removed from the default scheduler plugins list as they have been deprecated since Kubernetes v1.14.
```

## Looking ahead
The official list of API removals planned for [Kubernetes v1.32](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32) include:

* The `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will be removed. 
To prepare for this, you can edit your existing manifests and rewrite client software to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1 API` version, available since v1.29. 
All existing persisted objects are accessible via the new API. Notable changes in flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3 include that the PriorityLevelConfiguration `spec.limited.nominalConcurrencyShares` field only defaults to 30 when unspecified, and an explicit value of 0 is not changed to 30.

> For more information, please refer to [these docs](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32).

Reviewer 12: (nit)
Avoid “these docs”; try:
```suggestion
For more information, please refer to the [API deprecation guide](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32).
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes Removals and Major Changes In v1.31'
date: 2024-07-18
slug: kubernetes-1-31-upcoming-changes
author: >
  Abigail McCarthy,
  Edith Puclla,
  Matteo Bianchi,
  Rashan Smith,
  Yigit Demirbas 
---

As Kubernetes develops and matures, features may be deprecated, removed, or replaced with better ones for the project's overall health. 
This article outlines some planned changes for the Kubernetes v1.31 release that the release team feels you should be aware of for the continued maintenance of your Kubernetes environment. 
The information listed below is based on the current status of the v1.31 release. 
It may change before the actual release date. 

### The Kubernetes API Removal and Deprecation process
The Kubernetes project has a well-documented [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/) for features. 
This policy states that stable APIs may only be deprecated when a newer, stable version of that API is available and that APIs have a minimum lifetime for each stability level.
A deprecated API has been marked for removal in a future Kubernetes release. 

> It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will result in a warning being displayed. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It will continue to function until removal (at least one year from the deprecation), but usage will display a warning. 
```

Removed APIs are no longer available in the current version, so you must migrate to using the replacement.

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.

* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after the deprecation.

* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

> Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Whether an API is removed because a feature graduated from beta to stable or because that API did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. 
```

Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the [documentation](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/).

## A note about SHA-1 signature support fully going away in go1.24

> In [go1.18](https://go.dev/doc/go1.18#sha1) (released in March 2022), the crypto/x509 library started to reject certificates that were signed with a SHA-1 hash function. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In [go1.18](https://go.dev/doc/go1.18#sha1) (released in March 2022), the crypto/x509 library started to reject certificates signed with a SHA-1 hash function. 
```

If you rely on SHA-1 certificates, please start moving off them.

Please see [Kubernetes issue #125689](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/125689) to get a better idea of timelines around the support for SHA-1 going away, when Kubernetes releases plans to adopt go1.24, and for more details on how to detect usage of SHA-1 certificates via metrics and audit logging. 

## Deprecations and Removals in Kubernetes 1.31

### Deprecate kustomize from kubectl [KEP 4706](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4706)

In the early days of Kubernetes, when not that many tools in the field of declarative configurations existed, [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) was introduced, and to make life easier for kubectl users, it was included in kubectl by default.

Over the past several years, the ecosystem around Kubernetes has grown significantly, resulting in a wider spread of tooling, including declarative configuration. 

> With these new options, users are able to use [kubectl plugins](/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/) to match their use cases with the best tool capable of resolving the problem at hand.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With these new options, users can use [kubectl plugins](/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/) to match their use cases with the best tool to resolve the problem at hand.
```

> With Kubernetes v1.31, kustomize will be deprecated from kubectl. It will be removed in a future release. 

Reviewer 5: I do not agree with exposing the risk of this being removed in a disruptive way to end users yet. There were objections on the enhancements issue from myself and others (including the kustomize subproject maintainer) that questioned the reasons for the removal. Until it is actually settled that it will be removed, and there is actionable guidance for current users, I do not think we should surface this.

Reviewer 5: /hold
on telling users kustomize will be removed

Author: @liggitt thank you for the feedback. We've removed the section about KEP 4706 based on this.

If anything changes and there is more consensus on this deprecation, please let us know and we can include it in the main release blog. 

/hold cancel

cc: @neoaggelos

Reviewer 3: @a-mccarthy Just a heads up: Earlier today, [KEP-4706](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4706) was removed from the current v1.31 release cycle and will be targeted for a future release after further discussions ([reference](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4706#issuecomment-2233048060)).  It looks like we're all set for now!

The exact removal timeline is currently described in [the enhancement](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-cli/4706-deprecate-and-remove-kustomize/README.md). 
This will allow both tools to be developed and maintained separately. 

### Deprecate Kubelet RunOnce mode [KEP 4580](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4580)

The kubelet support for RunOnce mode is being deprecated and will be removed in a future release. 
Users are advised to deprecate RunOnce mode by disabling the `LegacyNodeRunOnceMode` feature gate. 
Starting in Kubernetes v1.31, kubelet will refuse to start if this feature gate is disabled. 

If you still rely on this feature, migrate to using the `podman kube` subcommand. 

> Refer to the [podman documentation](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-kube.1.html.) for more information.

Reviewer 4: Note the URL edit here:
```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [podman documentation](https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-kube.1.html).
```
